good afternoon and welcome to session
719 administering quicktime streaming
server my name is Stephen tona I'm a
product manager on the QuickTime product
marketing team and I just want to remind
you that if you have any questions if
you can hold them till the end I'd be
great and then just line up at a
microphone so that we can have the whole
session translated properly and without
further ado I'd like to introduce Chris
Lacroix who is an engineering manager on
the server team at apple and just in
case you forgot that's diva told I have
it ok so hi i'm chris mccoy I've been
working on the streaming server I guess
kind of sensitive inception and we've
quick 10 straining server was actually a
part of necklace and the very first
release of mac OS x server started out
as quicktime standing server version 1
it's been in every version since then
and what Panther word we're announcing
quicktime streaming server 5 and it's
got a couple of new cut some new
features that are actually pretty nice
we've got things like home directory
support we've really tighten down the
security of the server so it's be even
more secure than it was before we have
written a new ad administration
application we've written a new content
management application we made it more
tightly integrated with mac OS x server
as a whole so it integrates with some of
the other services on that close tense
river and so we are going to show you a
little bit of that today so first going
to have somebody come up in demo
somebody John Anderson demo the new
admin and we'll take a look at the
content management tools and then i'm
going to give everybody an opportunity
to maybe fall asleep because i'm gonna
go into some advanced administration and
my goal is to see how many people either
walk out or fall asleep if I can do half
the room on doing really well so we're
going to get really esoteric in here
okay so the new admin this is a native
mac OS 10 application or if the plug-in
actually to plug into the mac OS 10
server admin so it's completely
integrated with all of the other service
on the admin or other services on the
server inside the admin it's not
web-based so in the past I think we are
getting with clicked on streaming server
3 we had a web-based admin this is not
web base which is a Mac os10 Coco
application we do still provide the
web-based admin them and there are a
couple of reasons for that one is that
maybe you're not going to be on a
Macintosh when you need to administer so
we've got your honor but Windows machine
or a linux machine you can still get
into the web-based admin and make
changes to the server the other reason
is that quicktime streaming server is
the version of the server that we ship
with mac OS 10 server we also should we
also produce something called Darwin
streaming server which is really just an
exact copy of quicktime streaming charge
the exact same core source code the only
difference is it doesn't have all of the
nice McIntosh jewelry that we are
providing and that's an open source
project that we provide binaries for
solaris windows linux the source code is
available it's been poured into a bunch
of different platforms and that's
another big reason for web-based you IM
still there so we have John come up and
show you a little bit of the new
streaming server admin I'm John Anderson
I work in the engineering team on you I
basically for a graduate of s so let me
go ahead and launch the server admin and
this is the server admin tool for the
entire for the entire Mac os10 server
machine and you can actually use it to
administer multiple servers at once so
you can use it to administer an entire
rack of quicktime streaming server
machines but what i'm going to do is I'm
going to go ahead and go over here to
quicktime streaming and actually isn't
stopped but we'll just forget we saw
that to this what okay here we go so if
you go to the connections tab for
example you can see the connected users
this is pretty similar to the web UI for
those who have seen it fairly similar
functionality so where you can see the
connected you
and the active relays and you can sort
them however you want to and just like
the webui you can see all the logs from
here the error log the access log have
easy access to those so you don't have
to ftp end of the server to get those
you can just get them pretty easily
there's this grass feature this is
pretty cool this actually shows you how
many users have been connected and what
the throughput is isn't streaming on the
tool running Chris oh yeah or no maybe
okay so it would show you were there any
users connected a grass over time and
maybe Chris after you run the streaming
admin tool for a while you can bring
this up again maybe are you can combine
feet later settings of course this is
the this is the important stuff this is
the meat of the matter you can set for
example what the root folder is where
you put all your media files what your
maximum connections a lot of these are
over from the web as well one thing that
is new and it's pretty significant that
was not in previous versions is IP
bindings tab and so this is this
actually allows you if you're streaming
on port 80 of course you you can't
stream on the same IP address as an
Apache server because that's also
streaming on port 80 so this is
something that's that's new in this in
this cute ESS admin that allows you to
specifically tell it to bind certain IP
addresses and then you can go ahead and
turn on streaming at port 80 and molds
do multiple hosts on the same machine
there's a better relay you I I'm really
not going to get to that because that's
pretty complex and logging so this
really gives you a lot of the stuff from
the web and it basically gives you
everything from the web admin and more
and gives you some graphs to represent
some things and a lot easier to you
great thanks actually you can medical
staff opportunity back I've got the 30
seconds veteran slides so we also showed
guys worth the quicktime keynote tuesday
we showed a new application called qts
publisher and CSS publisher is an
application that lets you remotely
manage all of the content on your
streaming service you may have an xserve
sitting someplace in a back room this
application will allow you to do things
like upload all these movies to the
server from wherever you're at and
automatically prepare them for the
internet for hint you know hinted for
streaming for progressive download it
will help you a lot with each would deal
with all of the HTML issues that you'll
need to deal with when you're trying to
get multimedia up on the Internet man
lets you manage playlists and edit
annotations in this application is
actually driving some unix tools that we
wrote let's sit on the back end for you
can now actually and you can use those
tools yourself i'll show you a little
bit more about those later in the
session so i don't have John demo cutie
SS publisher now okay
qss publisher is basically it's there to
save you a lot of steps would get a lot
of questions on the mailing list where
it's like okay I know where my movies
folder is I put my movie up there and
that's kind of it like you don't really
know where do we go from here so that's
where Q CSS publisher kind of fits in
this is a client-server app so this is
installed with the admin tools and you
can connect either in this case we're
connecting to localhost and of course
you can also connect to a remote server
and that's that's important to emphasize
that you can run this from anywhere and
then you're connecting to your server
and as you can see here from the media
view you can see all of your media and
you can see it like collated basically
as a list that you can sort through for
example or you can see it as an outline
so you can see your actual file tree
here and we also separate it out of
course into media library and mp3
library and that basically is mp3
library is l your Empress trees and your
media library is basically all your
everything but mp3 so that's the best
way of kind of distinguishing between
the two the streaming standards are
different of course for mp3 files its
life cast streaming and 44 media is rtst
so that's the main distinction there and
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
go ahead and go to the media library mp3
library and I'm going to highlight a
song and I'm gonna go to the settings
you so you here you can see all the id3
tags for that mp3 movie and you can edit
them change them remotely and if you go
to the URL tab you can see the checkbox
that says media is available for
download so when you're working in these
libraries you're actually working in a
sort of staging area so you can you can
go ahead and put movies up here and you
can upload them and they will not be
available to the public immediately so
you can go in and go ahead and change
all of your settings and everything like
that before you make them available to
the public for streaming so for example
here I can go and go ahead
make it available for download and apply
my changes and this will actually give
me the URL for the movement for the mp3
files so I can so that I can stream it
on demand their sentence what W reach
bike can we add each other please enter
your pass Kurt so I took a weird song
but that's okay and if you do want to
upload media then all you have to do is
go to the media of you or any basically
any list of content and you can just
take a file I'm not really going to drag
it up but you know it's just take this
clipping file for example and drag it in
and then you can just pick where you
want it to go and it will get uploaded
and if it's a movie file you don't have
to worry about making it ready for fast
start you don't have to worry about
making it ready for hinting that all
happens in the background on the server
so see so the next thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to make an mp3 playlist
because of course on demand mp3 is one
thing but of course another thing you
that a lot of people technically will
usually do it will start up a playlist
that they can have basically an mp3
radio station going so I can go in here
and click new playlist and i'll make an
mp3 playlist and let's call it my music
so i can go in here and yeah i can
either from the folder view here from
the song view i can just pick i'm going
to be really moody and go for like a
linkin park and then followed it up with
REM and I guess that's all i have is
linkin park in rem so you can see that i
mean you know this is this is very very
mac like I mean you can you can take
things and drag them to rearrange them
apparently not but
this is beta so you can you can drag any
of these files in that you want set them
up and then when you're ready just hit
start and the playlist will oh I don't
have a broadcast password okay here's
another time to see the admin let's go
ahead and go in here and set an mp3
broadcast average so while he's doing
that mp3 broadcast passwords in icecast
rachelle castle you need to provide a
password basically for people to be able
to broadcast remember so he's setting
that right now
and
and why does that matter because the
broadcaster that broadcasts mp3 is
actually broadcast to the streaming
server which then distributes out to
clients so you've gotta have a password
on that server
okay so we may end up skipping the the
broadcast of the my music playlist let's
try it in here sounds like linkin park
and REM basically yes we can park in rem
it's probably not going to be a real
surprise to you at any at any point
anyway so what we'll do is we'll just
click ok on that error message and go on
with the demo so next thing we'll do is
we'll just look at some movies I'm going
to go back to here to list you and I'm
going to highlight this losing grip
movie which is how I feel right now so
you can see here you can settle the
annotations the final version of course
is going to have the full list of
annotations in there I just put a few of
them in here so far but it's the same
idea you can go here and change the
movie annotations remotely so you don't
have to download the movie and change
the annotations and then upload it back
up again and here you see a couple
buttons here media is available for
streaming media is available for
download if you make something available
for download what it's going to do is
it's going to prepare it for fast start
and it's going to put it in your web
server folder and make it available
there so that it can be so that it can
be viewed by fast start so if it's
something short like a movie trailer or
video or something that might work
really well for that so for example here
if I say make a bill for download and
click on that link and you can see by
the little progress bar that goes along
here that it's actually fast starting
the movie
ok
but what I'm going to do for this in
this case is I'm going to make it
available for streaming so this is going
to go through quicktime streaming server
instead so this is going to put a hinted
movie in the quicktime streaming movies
folder and so it's the same thing here i
can click on this URL and you get
interested on it's already streaming the
thing here of course is that you're not
going to want to hand somebody in the
URL I mean it's another stopping point
right it's like a where do you go from
here you've got to start tsp or l you're
not going to tell your users to type it
into the quicktime player and so that's
what the purpose of the links view is
and this view will basically give you a
list of everything that's publicly
available so it's assumed that your
playlists are publicly available of
course and any of the movies and mp3
files that you've made available for
streaming or download will show up here
and so you can see here that for example
that the losing grip movie is still
highlighted and in this display tab you
can basically explained how it is that
you want this to be embedded in a page
so for example here it's selected that
you wanted to open the quicktime player
so it's going to show this custom this
custom image and when they click on its
going to open a quicktime player with
that movie playing in it optionally i
can embed it in the web page which
should have the same behavior except
that the movie would play in the page
itself or i can have it autoplay so so
it starts playing as soon as the page is
loaded in this case i'm going to go
ahead and have it open in the quicktime
player and if we look at the bandwidth
tab you can see that you can provide you
can actually create breast movies here
so you can specify for example that if
somebody's on a broadband connection
they can see the streaming version and
it's a nonce admit then they get the
fast start version or maybe you can
transcode it to a lower bitrate or
anything like that so this is basically
rest movies made easy and once you set
that up you can go to the HTML tab and
what I could do here for example is i
can highlight all this stuff copy it and
then i'm going to launch bbedit and make
the world's simplest web page so i'll
just do a new HTML document i'm not even
going to title it except that and just
paste that in
now I take that movie off my desktop and
drag it on to Safari
see we have a movie with you that's
pretty cool I mean that takes you the
rest of the steps to getting something
actually on to a page and not only can
you drag that into bbedit but you can
also drag it into Dreamweaver and go
live and stuff like that and it will
show up right away as it actually shows
up as an activex control because it has
to be compatible with internet explorer
6 for windows pay no attention to the
man behind the curtain that's one of
those demo things but yes very suit of
you to notice that actually so that's
that's pretty cool but there's another
step that we can go to with this which
is that you can highlight you can
multiple select or even do a single
select of these lengths and you can
click to make web page button and what
this will actually do is this will take
that that HTML code and it will run it
through what's called Apache xslt which
means XML stylesheet transformations
it's a well-documented and very
versatile standard for templating and it
means that you know what will provide
some templates for you can go out and
make your own and so I can type in a
name here and say like my Avro movies
and so what this will actually do is
make a web page from your template with
the movies in it and here's where it's
actually paying attention to the stuff
that I had chosen in that dialogue so
[Music]
so automatic webpage generation as well
so let's see
so that's the publisher thanks John okay
so this is stopping point one for those
of you who want to leave I'm going to
get really boring up to this John's kind
of the highlight of the show here I'm
going to talk a little bit about
firewalls firewalls or something that
have been in the past the bane of
streaming but then things are getting
better and I can talk to a little bit
about why our laws are a problem and why
they're getting better I'm going to show
you how to work through the command line
a little bit and then talk about some
troubleshooting and some configuration
options you can do there that you can't
do from the UI so first firewalls naps
and proxies so when we first started out
doing streaming quicktime streaming
server one we we had a hard time getting
streams to go through anything because
the firewalls developed into fairly new
stuff firewalls we're not configured to
deal with it there were not necessarily
proxies around naps have no idea what to
do with anything so we did a few things
we we added the ability to tunnel the
protocols we use over HTTP which is
great that gets around firewalls and
naps because they know what to do with
HTTP but it's not really the best way to
stream it's not the way we like the
strain we like to use that you know the
standard protocols and so can I want to
show you kind of why these protocols are
a problem so streaming is comprised of
three protocols typically on the wire
you've got rtsp and that's the protocol
that runs on tcp runs on porch 554 70 70
or 80 or whatever import the servers
configured to use it's a lot like HTTP
and it's basically gift away for the
player the player initiates this to say
I'd like to watch a movie what is the
movie what does it look like okay I want
to watch these tracks okay play the
movie and the way that protocol works is
the client makes it requests over TCP
and the server responds when each of
those boxes are the separate
collapsed it's not one big request like
that this is typically not a problem for
firewalls because firewalls are usually
configured to allow and the firewall I'm
referring to as a firewall that's on the
players side firewalls are typically
configured to allow TCP connections from
a client that are initiated from a
client inside your network to work
properly on submit the client initiated
it's probably safe not all of them but
most of them are the problem comes into
play when we get done with with the rtsp
and start sending data so data gets sent
over RTP and RTP and arcs rtcp
traditionally run over UDP so the
problem with the UDP versus TCP is that
TCP is not connectionless for the it's a
protocol that keeps the connection to
look at the connection is there UDP is
connectionless when a client initiates a
request to a server via TCP that
connection stays open until the client
or the server closes that connection and
so firewalls you know they can deal what
they're happy with that they like know
where the connection came from they know
who owns both ends and as long as it
stays up there happy with it problem
with RTP or with UDP is that it's
connectionless every packet you send is
basically a brand little vamp brand-new
little mini connection to the server so
what just happened here is that the pcp
all got through fine the streaming
server started this thing send media
tracks and status tracks which are in
via UDP and the firewall sees these
things coming in at it bound for that QT
player imports tsukino and 17 up and
it's like where did these come from have
no idea where it came from it so they're
just they're just bouncing off the
firewall so that's the really big
problem and then not so problematic is
the client sends back UDP packets to the
server these are usually not a problem
because the server's not gonna have a
firewall that blocks that stuff or it'll
be properly configured because you're
doing screaming of course but being but
you may have a firewall that will block
outgoing UDP as well these status
packets contain things like things that
might be interesting to the server like
which package to client received which
ones that missed what its average
bandwidth was what its frame rate was
things like that you'll see a little bit
more of that when I get into more
esoteric topics okay so kind of recap
firewalls so what so aren't the problem
with firewalls is at RTP and rtcp or
sent out of band from the rtsp
connection right there sent via UDP
they're completely separate number one
excellent firewalls considered
considered them to be unsolicited they
don't know who they don't know why
anybody would be sending these to the
player because the firewall that has no
idea that it was negotiated a tag and
via rtsp Nats own you have a different
problem so what naps do if they take a
single IP address and then they they'll
map all of the traffic coming through
that that router than that router and
redirect it to the proper client in the
back end I think most of you are
familiar with nets so what happens is in
that gets the few DP packet and it looks
at it and it's like I have no idea who
to send this to so it just drops it so
there are ways to fix this one as I
mentioned is to streamline port 80 not
other way of cystic sutter to configure
your firewall the problem with
configuring of firewall is that you
basically have to open up ports 6970
through you know 6 steve it probably
6800 or something like that for incoming
UDP well there's a potential security
risk there you don't nest open up ports
and allow packets to come through that
you that you don't understand so what
you normally would do is you'd set up a
proxy a streaming proxy so screaming
proxies typically live meeting to live
in the DMZ on the client side where the
players they understand rtsp RTP rtcp
all of the protocols involved in
streaming this river will see the proxy
is just another client and the client
will see the property is just another
server so there's no problem there with
some compatibility and what happens if
the proxy translates the request from
the client and from the server so what
so the server of seeing the proxy has
one is one client the proxy actually
acts sort of as an at basic
an app for streaming here's a diagram
looks a little bit easier to understand
ending so on the left you've got the
screenings river in the internet so this
is you you guys are the guys admit
administering the server what you need
to tell people who can't stream or
assisted mins on that site is that they
need a screaming proxy and the proxy
lives right there in the DMV and the DMV
is an area that the firewall trusts so
things coming from that proxy server
will be trusted by the firewall and
allowed through to the brought to the
clients anything that tries to bypass
that string and proxy or go around the
DMV is going to hit the firewall and get
blocked because because the firewalls
obviously I don't know who you are I
don't trust you goodbye so that's
basically how proxies work and how to
get rid of the firewalls okay so this is
the second point where people may want
to locate will probably when I think
about leaving I'm going to kind of go
through command line options in quick
time streaming server so quick time
streaming server is comprised of a bunch
of command line tools whenever when you
see things like the admin app the admin
that John was showing or the PSS
publisher or the web-based admin all
those really are just facades that are
on top of these command line tools they
just all they do is configure those
configured the config files change the
options from the command line and just
execute these too often so if you really
want to get kind of down and dirty there
are all kinds of things you can do in
the command line it can't do in the GUI
and something to kind of run through a
few of these briefly these are just good
things to know we have a it's probably a
lot of it'll like not make sense to you
right now but there will be few really
doing streaming there's going to come a
time when you need to do something and
this is when it comes this is this is
the information that will come in handy
it's not documented completely it's not
something we you know we put a lot of
effort into documenting we're trying to
get better but we have a mailing list
and all the engineers around that
mailing list and they're really good
about answering questions and we
actually love to answer we love to see
people sort of messing with things like
this so starting off with the first
command line tools quicktime streaming
server so that's the command line tool
that is the quicktime streaming server
basically
and so what I'm showing here is
basically the usage for that tool if you
were to type QuickTime straining server
dash V for version you would show you
this a couple of things that are kind of
point out so when you're quick time
streaming server normally runs with a
demon so the D that you see there dash D
running foreground that causes it to
stay in the foreground and it'll cut and
in that mode quicktime streaming server
will actually generate print apps out
under the certain one you can kind of
watch what's happening you can watch
more or less depending upon some other
changes that you've made which I'll show
you later dash p allows you to specify
which port you want the server listen to
so this is really useful when somebody's
having a problem someplace you've got a
streaming server that's up and running
you don't want to bring it down to like
mess around with config files or go
through all of this trouble shooting you
can you can spell you can just say dash
p 8 7 6 force just pick a random port
and when your client out the client that
you're working with connect using that
port in their URL and the server will
run off to the side it won't have any
impact on the server's it's already
running so you can run multiple servers
that way and then there a couple of
options for specifying custom config
files there's a default location for
config files but if you wanted to do
some troubleshooting on the side you can
tweak the config files in a different
location and then point point the server
off to those in let's see Oh dash the
dash best option is actually pretty
interesting if you just kind of want to
monitor your server it'll basically just
a line at a time show you how many
clients are connected I think it shows
whether is it getting packet loss or
have things like that so moving from the
command line options for quicktime
streaming server i want to go to the
config file so the config file is XML
based it's really modular the server's
really modular right bits of if you've
ever heard any of us talk about the
streaming server before it's basically a
core server built with multiple modules
that a module for doing QuickTime movies
we've got a module for the mp3's you've
got a module for doing reflections of
broadcast we have a module for doing
administration
but the XML follows that formats which
module has its own mental block of
configuration in the library QuickTime
screaming config directory which is the
default location for all the config
files you'll see a streaming server at
smelled dash sample but when that file
is actually fully commented the file
that the server normally uses doesn't
have comments in it so this is great
this was kind of some partial
documentation you'll find things in
there that you will not even you have no
hope of understanding but probably does
not touch those there are over 140
attributes in there and most of them
don't need to be touched but they come
in useful to two different people
depending upon what they're trying to do
if you do modify a file a config file
and you don't want to restart the server
if you send it a hub signal you guys are
familiar with using the kill command
it's killed dash hub upper case like
that in the end the process idea of this
rumor that will force the server to
reread its preferences and kind of and
pick up your new changes and I have no
idea what those last two lines are well
if you really mess up I think I know
what it's supposed to say so if you
really mess up your config file you can
delete it and the server will
automatically generate anyone for you so
this key edit I think so here's what
some of the attributes look like I said
they're XML so here's this is a sample
file so it's about the comments and it
some things like auto restart to boolean
set it the true if you want the server
to auto restart if it crashes although
it never crashes false if you wanted to
just completed and died the movie folder
location which you can let you see in
the UI that's basically what it looks
like in the config file down below you
see some debugging options and these
words I'll show you some more about
these things later lets you kind of put
the server into moans real kind of show
you more information as it's running so
here are some of the interesting ones so
these are kind of things that people
tend to want to play with because they
want to do things we never thought of we
have a technology called skip protection
in the server and one of the things that
it does
is it will send media faster than real
time the reason it does that it wants to
grow the buffer on the client side
reason it wants to do that is it gives
us a lot more time if we do any Durant
retransmit a package so basically it
helps to improve the quality we have
that fix that we have that capped right
now 25 seconds if you had a reason to
put that down to 10 seconds erupt up to
a minute or five minutes whatever that's
affects the value you would change the
server also runs as whoever you launch
it is launched it as it needs to be
typically launched as rude because it
needs to bind so to some low numbered
ports needs to bind support 554 port 80
and anything of the 1024 you need to be
route to bind to so what you can do is
set both of these and this will cause
the server after it binds to those pork
stew the problem with being rude of
course with security problems this will
cause the server to set its user ID and
it's group ID down to whatever user
you're specifying here and this is
basically a good thing to do for
security reasons some options for error
log verbosity the bind IP address option
is actually available in the IP or I
mean in the admin now I don't know why
anybody would ever want to do this but
before we add instance on there used to
be like a minimum 3-second buffer and we
put this in here because there was a
reason for people to increase that
buffer don't ask me why you ever need to
do that that's how you do it another so
another kind of component of streaming
is the concept of a blob of text called
SDP it stands for session description
protocol it basically describes the
movie it's got information about each
track what format each track is in that
information that North that information
is actually embedded in a QuickTime
movie or an mpeg-4 if you have some
reason to override that information and
don't want to have to edit the movie you
just need to do a quick little hack then
you can turn this option on drop in a
file named movie named whatever the
movie name is SFTP that has basically a
full ftp description in it and that will
cause the server to pick that up rather
than using the ftp information out of
the movie
it's kind of an advanced thing but it
actually can come in useful in
emergencies if you don't want to
generate the ftp by hand you can set
this option to true and this will cause
the server whenever a movie is requested
to take the SFTP information from the
movie and spit out a little text file so
that's kind of a quick way to get the
ftp up and running and then make a
little tweak to it and with both of
these options set then everything worked
we like to you can have logging log in
gmt time or local time for the admin
module i'm going to show you a little
more about an admin protocol we have
later the admin protocol only allows
local access right now for security
reasons so you've got to be on the local
machine to use this protocol if you
wanted to allow outside access you could
set the local access only to false and
then you could provide a list of IP
addresses that are the only IP addresses
that are allowed to get in which is kind
of medium security and then this last
one is from the mp3 max flow control x
so this is basically the buffer that we
the size of a buffer that we use on when
streaming mp3 so if you have problems
with mp3 players kind of going through
that rebuffing thing that they do go
through sometimes if you increase this
value that many times will take care of
that okay moving on these were a little
more esoteric they're dropping like
flies this is awesome so with so when
you're doing when you're using a
broadcaster with the server there are a
couple of behaviors that you may or may
not like there are ways to override
those so the first one is that if a
broadcaster stops for some reason
they're a bunch of clients listening to
it our server will keep those claims
connected for this the broadcaster comes
back up it'll just continue working and
the only thing the client will see is
just kind of a blank blank spot right
the screen will stop for a little bit
and then start back up you may have a
reason to have the behavior work the
opposite way which is to actually have
all of the client connections just get
dropped when you stop the broadcaster so
this is the option they would you use
dad there is also our broadcaster also
has the ability to automatically
announced its brought it's just
announced that it's got a broadcast to
the server that's on by default if you
wanted to turn that off for whatever
reason to complete security you could
turn that off although that isn't
authenticated transactions that's kind
of mine early security but this look at
you even more security then another kind
of behavior of the server is that if a
broadcaster crashes for some reason the
QuickTime streaming server doesn't
necessarily know it doesn't immediately
assume that the broadcaster is gone I
mean it can't so what will happen is
that it'll it'll sit there and wait
it'll wait for a certain amount of time
and if it doesn't get receive any more
data from the broadcaster it'll
eventually time it out well that can be
a problem if you're in the middle of
doing like a live broadcast and
something bad happens you don't have two
or three or four minutes whatever that
timeout is to get you wanna get the
broadcaster back up and running you
wanted to start broadcasting again what
you can do is you can change this value
to allow duplicate broadcasts and
basically what that means is that if a
broadcaster if a broadcaster tries to
come back in again while I'm waiting for
this time out I'm just going to allow it
otherwise it's going to reject it it's
going to say I'm already doing this
broadcast while explaining for the
timeout so this is some value that you
would want to set to true typically if
you own your own controlled environment
when you're when you're doing live
broadcasts in a little more about
firewalls so I don't need to talk too
much about the port numbers these were
just these are the port numbers that the
server by default binds to if you wanted
to you could turn off some of these
ports side 54 is the standard rtsp port
8000 8000 one or the standard mp3
broadcasting ports and 70 70 is kind of
a historical realnetworks RTSP proxy
port number and the reason we have that
in here is that back in the old days
this actually helped us to get through
some of the firewalls because they were
configured for real
screaming another important one this one
will this one you will have you pulling
your hair out if it ever happens to you
so you remember that status from the
client comes back via UDP so I mentioned
that it that that that contains things
like which package the client receives
which one is it lost it also is used for
something else that's really important
the server uses that to determine
whether the client is still alive or not
and if the server determines that the
client is no longer alive it's going to
it's going to basically drop its
connection after two or three minutes so
you will there can be configurations
usually on your end if you put if you
have a configuration where you put a
round robin DNS in front of your
streaming server what's going to happen
is that that round robin is going to
know what to do with all of the tcp
because it understands you know remember
over persistent connections it knows who
book which and belongs to everybody
what's going to happen is that clients
are going to start sending UDP packets
at your round robin wright at your round
at your at your round robin DNS machine
so it's going to get them and it's not
going to know who which of your back-end
machines to send it to so what this
option does is it tells the screening
servers to actually embed their own IP
address inside one of the transactions
that goes all the way back to the client
that will cause the client to bypass dns
round robin when it's sending those
status packets and send them directly
around to the server which is fine it
doesn't affect bandwidth or anything
like that which is typically laying the
navigators graham rather than the setup
but it makes everything just magically
work bind IP address we already talked
about that a little bit me you I don't
need to go into that okay so mp3
screaming at the command line this was
probably something you are more likely
to use mp3 screaming because it's
basically for every broadcast you're
doing or every playlist you're doing
you're running one copy of this tool and
so there are if you know if you guys
were like kind of savvy pearl scripters
whatever you can actually write your own
tools to kind of start and stop playlist
manage playlists and the command line is
really the way you want to do that so
the options here are
let's drop down to like X their
preflight configuration what that's
going to do is actually going to walk
through all of the configuration files
and make sure that those all look ok the
one underneath that is check mp3 files
that's going to kind of do a fast scan
through all of your mp3 files and look
for problems corrupt files data rates
that don't match between you know things
that will cause them not to play
properly in a player when you're doing a
broadcast or when you're doing a
playlist I mean other options are pretty
pretty self-explanatory I think
configuration files so mp3 streaming is
you comprised of two required files when
you do a broadcast config file and a
playlist file and then there's some
optional metafiles now get into hu vs a
little more details so the config file
looks like this it's got basically a
bunch of the same things you saw in the
command line options it's also got
things like your broadcast name here
your mount point which is basically the
portion of the URL data usually would
type in after the IP address actually
they wouldn't type it in you would use
QT OSS publisher and it will give up on
your website the broadcast password max
upcoming list size so this is if you
want to the book V this'll help to
control the file I'm going to explain in
just a second the bitrate you want to
use for doing preflighting as its kind
of scanning through all those mp3 movies
that's the bit rate it's going to use to
determine whether they're valid or not
and then the playlist file play the
files are pretty simple they're
basically just a list of paths to mp3
files in addition they've got a number
to the right of when that number is the
number that's used when you're doing
weighted random playlist weighted random
playlists are play this that play
randomly but the higher and number is
the higher oh wait is on a song a more
often it'll play so you can adjust these
numbers from from 0 to 10 or 12 10 so
here the optional files so the dot
replaced list so basically the file the
real file name is going to be recover
than in your playlist or name of your
plane live students don't replace list
and what it does is it we
is the current playlist and the
transition happens after the current
song is done playing this is what you
would want to use when you want to
modify your playlist in real time you
don't have to bring down the broadcast
you can just modify your file and give
it this name in and take care of that
stop list so this is similar and this is
usually used for broadcasts although can
be used for anything usually used for
broadcasts that are kind of running
permanently it allows you to provide a
list of things to play after the next
song completes and then basically shut
down the broadcast so maybe you need to
come down for maintenance on your server
and you want to put up a little message
for those that are listening today will
be down for whatever time next two files
or files that you can actually use for
creating websites these are files that
the broadcaster rights and you can read
from them the thought current file
contains the name of the currently
playing file so you can use that if you
wanted to have like an auto updating web
page or writing or if you're writing
some other kind of an application around
it and dot upcoming will show you a list
of the move of the files or the songs
that are going to be coming up and you
can modify the number of items that
shows in that file by changing that
attribute in your in your plaintiffs
configuration file this is useful if you
wanted to show a web page that showed
songs that have played and also songs
that are coming up if you wanted to try
to keep people I'm not sure the IRI al
exit but to do that if he's like the
thing about mp3 streaming play or mp3
playlist is that basically everything I
just described here works for for movie
playlists as well or QuickTime playlist
the only difference is instead of mp3
broadcaster it's called plaintiffs
broadcast for the tool but everything
other than that is almost identical a
few different config options of course
mp3 streaming if you wanted you
transcoding or live encoding of mp3s we
don't do that but there are a lot of
third-party products that do and these
all do work with with the QuickTime
streaming server products ohm a camp we
amp lame and live eyes for live encoding
on you can leave a unix-based open
source project
and there's another there's actually a
Macintosh application of the name is
escaping me right now okay so streaming
load tool so this is our tool that
allows you to put load on our servers
well that's what we typically use it for
it so it's basically it's a QuickTime
Player simulator because naturally show
any movies but it does all of the
networking and acts just like a real
quick time player as far as the server
is concerned we use it for performance
testing at Apple most people who are
trying to who are deploying big servers
will believe it for that as well they
want to find out how many streams you
know the server is comfortable with we
use it for stress testing how we find a
lot of bugs just load it up with as many
students as we can at one time we also
use it for protocol protocol testing it
supports the screening load tool
supports all of the protocols all of the
rtsp or all of the variations of the
rtsp protocols quicktime streaming
server supports we have tunnelling over
port a you know HTTP we've got standard
our KSP we've got the skip Protection
Enhancement switch your standard but
they're kind of extensions to RTSP and
so on and this simulator supports all of
those you can test those protocols and
it works with servers and proxies
because it does look just like a
standard um streaming claim this is what
the the command line options were pretty
straightforward not a whole lot there
most of the information that you're
going to modify will be in the config
file the config file is again text
format it's not XML is just a key value
pair file some of the options are going
to want to set possibly or the client
type reliable UDP of skip protection UDP
of standard rtsp HTTP use tunneling /
tunneling rtsp over HTTP TCP use
interleaved RTSP you know most of you
probably don't care about this stuff but
if you do that's how you set it number
of concurrent clients this tool can
simulate more than one client so if you
wanted to simulate 100 clients you would
set concurrent clients to 100 movie
Langton so you want might want to
control how long the movie is actually
watched it may be a 20-minute movie but
you just want to do a little tin you
know 10 the second test to make sure
that the movies up and
just set that to 10 seconds run forever
means that the tool just runs forever
that's you'd normally use that if you
want to um you know if you're doing
performance testing it's hard to tell
how long it's going to take you to kind
of get everything all set up so you just
get you know can you get this thing
going crank it up and it just runs
forever until you stop it the load tool
also generates logs and these logs or
what these logs contain all kinds of
information I'm gonna show you one in a
second I'm about what happened with each
of the sessions and URLs of course you
need to specify which movies you want to
watch the load tool can take a list of
URLs if you've got a hundred movies on
your on your server and you want to have
this tool walk through every one of them
just include 100 URLs and consume
violent I'll do that so here's what the
output looks like in the terminal so one
the important thing here is the checking
for streaming load tool thought emoji on
the target server so what that's saying
what the way streaming mode tool works
is that it requires that a movie with
this name is on the server otherwise
it's not going to run and the reason we
do that is we don't want people to take
streaming load tool and just start
putting stress on everybody's servers
right so the only reason the only way it
will work is if there's a movie with
this name on your server so you need to
make sure that when you tried where you
use it shows you whatever what the
options were in there just kind of shows
you every second kind of status until it
gets done and then and then it's done so
that stay out put there and this is the
log the logs have all kinds of
information in them i'm not even sure
you guys can kind of parse through all
of that it'll show you things like total
packets last duplicate packets what the
stream what the data rate was for the
stream basically all that stuff if there
were an error it would show you an error
there's a couldn't connect to server
error in the middle so what this is good
for is this makes it possible for you
for people to right tools and pearl or
shell scripts or whatever the coop and
periodically call streaming load tool
with a preset predefined list of URLs
those tools can then parse through this
log and then actually could have monitor
status they can send you an email when
they see a problem or
generate HTML and show you the status of
all your streams we've done this at
appleton florence actually kind of cool
so new and Panther server I talked about
a couple of tools that the Qt SS
publisher uses we have now provided some
command line tools for manipulating
QuickTime movies for preparation aunt
for internet preparation basically cutie
media's new tool it allows you to do
things like change the annotations make
the movie a fast start movie at a hint
track to the movie and so on it's pretty
straightforward just I think this was
going to be really good for workflow
people you know people can set up
scripts that do all of this stuff
automatically cron jobs you can have the
UNIX form of a folder action and have a
cron job that Watchers folders and
automatically hints movies and shoves
Lofton's red spot next to Liz qtrs and
this is just a command-line tool for
creating resolution so you can do all of
this through the terminal if you're at
the machine I don't know why you'd want
to do that but if you need to ssh in
from a windows machine or a UNIX machine
you can still do things with quicktime
ok so you thought that was boring now
it's going to get really esoteric so the
servers got some trouble shooting modes
we use these at apple we do a lot of
streaming and we have come up we've come
across a lot of problems if I mentioned
firewall problems it's really hard to
figure out why people are not able to
get a stream sometimes or if they're
saying blips you know not good quality
video we have some modes in the server
that really lets you kind of dive really
deep down and kind of trouble shoot
these problems there they're basically
what you would see in a packet sniffer
but we've format things because we
understand what the protocol is we
formatted them into a I don't want to
say human readable but engineering
engineer readable format so here a
couple of them for you can turn on rtsp
debug.print up so remember you saw all
of the negotiation between the server
and client I want to watch this movie
what does it look like back and forth
the TCP thing this will just kind of
dump all of that to the terminal as
happening you can run a monitor those
things packet header products this will
print packet headers for all of the RTP
in the RT GP packets it will print
obviously the media from New York to be
back it's because it wouldn't be very
useful bit and then you can set the
header out the options here let you
specify which of those things you want
to see if you turn a cough you'll get
far fewer packets week I'm going to show
you how that works on so just so you can
see how horrendous it is split slip over
to the demo machine so I'm going to
cheat a little bit i'm not going to take
the entire type the entire command in
but basically what I'm doing is
launching the you guys see that ok up
there no kind of highlight each thing so
pseudo if you know as you you may not
know is I'm just a way to run things
basically a super user without actually
becoming super user click then streaming
servers to command I'm running dash you
see i'm running a this i want that i
want to run the server on using a config
file that i have modified and i've
turned on those options that i just
showed you i'm running in debug mode
dash D and I've already got a server
running on this machine I don't want to
interrupt that one so I'm going to tell
it to actually bind to do all of its
streaming on port eight seven six five
so let me start it up asking for my root
password because of the sudo command so
the server is running and I'm gonna show
you what happens when you connect the
client with all of these debugging
options turned on it very fun so can you
guys read that
you know what it means anyway basically
the point here is to show you that there
are all kinds of information coming out
of there so can you flip back to the
slides I'll kind of show you just a
little bit of some of the information
that comes through slide unless you guys
we're still watching that okay so you
probably couldn't see it because it went
by way too fast so here's what our tsp
looks like and this is what so this is
the output that you'll get when you when
you put it into this mode showing you
the connected IP of the fervour showing
you the port that the connect that the
client connected to on the server 70 70
in this case which is a little
interesting maybe that's part of the
problem somebody's having shows you the
port that the clients using not all that
important the URL they used shows you
the bandwidth the bandwidth here is two
billion in something basically that
means that they've got upset tool and
it's set to the highest bandwidth
possibly ever had their QuickTime Player
set to modem it would probably they
would say whatever modem rate quicktime
player sends back that can be useful
when people are complaining about not
getting high quality content maybe
they've left their quicktime player set
to modem speed look at that you can tell
immediately what happened also in the
user agent feels you can tell what
version of quicktime they've got you can
tell which OS they're running on which
GPU things like that and that could be
really useful when you trying to
troubleshoot as well the response from
described has a couple of little a
little less interesting when you're
troubleshooting but let's just going to
walk go through the red ones here that X
except retransmit re transmit that
basically tells you that the server and
the clients have agreed to do skip
protection if you don't see that in the
response then it means that they're not
going to get to skip protection and
they're probably not going to get
instant on as you as well so this could
be this could help won't tell you what
the problem is but it can kind of get
you closer to start to determine what
the problem is all of that information
starting with the V equals sign and all
the way down to the red MPEG that's the
sdp information I was talking about so
this is
the description of each track of the
movie the format of the movie all that
kind of stuff not that useful for
troubleshooting usually but sometimes
setup request is request that the client
makes after so the first request that
makes is that describe you saw which is
basically the client saying to the
server tell me about this movie at this
URL comes back client looks through all
of that SDP information and it decides
which tracks it wants to play doesn't
have to play them all and then it sends
a setup request for each track that it
would like to play so if you look at the
setup requests look at the red areas
traffic saying here that I want track
three of the sample 300k bit movie and
then another important thing is that
it's telling you which port that it
would like you to send media to so this
can help you kind of dealing with
firewall issues so this is the client
telling this river send data to me it on
these ports via UDP and then not a
helpful troubleshooting but in the
response there you'll see this X random
data and then underneath that you're
going to see about 1,400 bytes worth of
random data and don't don't be
undisturbed by that so basically what
that is that's part of our skin
protection technology in the instance on
technology we do some active bandwidth
measuring measure and width measurement
and this is one of the ways we I'm going
to determine bandwidth we kind of send
this random probe back it out there and
then we measure the time it takes to get
back that helps us to determine
bandwidth ok so that's our tsp now rtcp
these are the status package that go
back and forth these are coming from the
client how do I know that says app right
there got all kinds of information in it
some of the useful some of it not but
it's going to show it and these things
come over often every five seconds to 30
seconds or whatever it depends on
basically the plot which player you're
talking to show you the average will
show you the bit rate of the client come
the number of packets received the
number of packets drop and you kind of
kind of monitor these things in real
time if you want
to a little difficult you probably have
to write a tool that actually parsed the
out all this output and monitored things
frame rate over but for window size
these are all very esoteric okay this is
a little less esoteric but still pretty
esoteric admin protocol so we further
supports a protocol that lets you talk
to it directly via HTTP to set and get
its attributes and to get it get
basically at status the server is phenom
Victorian it's written in C++ inside the
server if you know anything about
programming there are all kinds of
objects and there's this whole hierarchy
of some values that you can grab out of
the server because it's http-based
though it's really easy to write tools
or it just send HTTP requests you get
data back you can parse through do
whatever you want with it that's what we
use for the web admin web admin makes
requests parcels it all out generate
HTML and puts it up on a web page
easiest way to deal with it is probably
to use curl or a web browser if you want
to kind of get it you know to look at
things really quickly without writing a
tool and you use pork 5542 conditioner
it's pretty straightforward them here
for the request looks like it's
authenticated so you need to provide a
username and password and then your host
name and then an attribute path so as I
said the servers very modular and
object-oriented this is kind of the
standard path to get to an attribute
that belongs to this to actually to the
server itself so modules admin server
movie folder here are some curl commands
I'm going to actually go over and do a
couple of them over here that's what
commands would look like that start you
see there you can flip back over here so
first let me kind of show you curl so
curls basically just a command line like
it's like client for making requests it
can do HTTP FTP I mean all what it does
is it just returns things in raw form
and it doesn't try to try to format it
at all so if I were to curl www apple
in a new terminal because I experiment
stuff into that one I'm going to get
back Apple's website in HTML form right
so that's that's basically what Colonel
does I'll clean that up so if I wanted
to talk to screaming admin server i
would i would use curl use the format
that i talked about now is notice at the
end i put a star stars a wild card that
means show me everything inside the
server object so I hit that it's going
to ask me for the password so there is
all kinds of stuff in here so some of
this fuel if you're familiar with the
QuickTime streaming server programming
ap is you probably understand what some
of these are am sure most of you or not
but it's showing me all kinds of things
in the current band width of the server
the total connections that it's ever
served since its come up the the current
bandwidth I really wanted to get even
deeper into this take that same command
and i'm going to insert a server client
sessions i'm still using the wild card
there because i want to see all of the
sessions and i probably don't have any
because i think are well yes it didn't
find any so basically what that what i
mean i'm not going to continue because i
think this is probably not that
interesting to people but it would show
you a list of all of the current
connections they would all have an ID
attached to them and then if i wanted to
dive down further i could say okay I
want to see session number X you can
show you all the attributes for that
connection so you can remotely monitor
your server remotely troubleshoot your
server and actually look at what's
happening on the server well double
client okay how many people are asleep
like a slob stuff okay so kind of
closing things down here so for more
information we've got the road map here
a couple of quick times sessions 720 and
722 they did cancel the session
Wi-Fi and 3G let the games begin has
been cancelled tomorrow if you want to
be probably a little bit less bored but
it is definitely more tactical the
QuickTime streaming server programming
session is going to happen tomorrow if
you're a open open source programmer
that wants to learn about modules you
should show up if you just want to know
where to start when you're working on
the server you are open source project
is available to you and modify as much
as you like as long as you buy buy
apples on open source license John
miradas are leading dinner on the server
is going to go through in the entire
architecture of the server and kind of
walk you through how to how to get
started on actually modifying the actual
source code on the server and we've got
a bunch of quick pine sessions and kind
of a one to notice the producer
listening party with QuickTime we're
going to see probably a little more
cutie SS publisher there and John's
going to do a an mp3 playlist that
actually works right thank right okay
cool Friday more stuff need to contact
anybody about quicktime streaming server
anything quicktime quicktime man at
apple com Guillermo Ortiz gives you man
documentation and I don't see you on
here let me back up
okay I won't back up but you're not
you're not if you're not aware of this
we have a couple of mailing lists for
the screening sir we have a users
mailing list and we have a developer's
mailing list the developers mailing list
is mainly for people who are actually
doing coding on the server writing
plugins although a lot of administrators
were there too and then the user
playlist is more for system
administrators and people who are
deploying the server go to lift a pecan
just search for streaming and subscribe
they've they're great list say a massive
amounts of good information browse the
archives you to understand what I'm
talking about and we're and we're all on
the list who are trying to be as
responsive as we can
you